District E2 is composed of the South River City, Riverside, Dawson, St. Edwards, Parker Lane and Pleasant Valley neighborhoods. The South River City and St. Edwards neighborhoods are combined into the Greater South River City planning area. The Parker Lane, Pleasant Valley, and Riverside neighborhoods comprise the East Riverside/Oltorf Combined (EROC) planning area. The Dawson neighborhood is a single planning area.

Dawson

The Dawson neighborhood is an established mixed-use neighborhood in south-central Austin. The neighborhood runs from W. Oltorf Street to Ben White Boulevard between South Congress Avenue and South First Street. The natural character of the neighborhood is enhanced by numerous large oaks, and by East Bouldin Creek which flows through the center of the neighborhood. The land use is distinguished by major commercial corridors on S. First St. and S. Congress Ave and stable residential areas on the interior of the neighborhood. The population is primarily a mix of Hispanic and Anglo residents, with smaller numbers of Asian-American and African-American residents. 

East Riverside/Oltorf Combined

Multifamily residential is the predominant land use for the combined area, most notably, the Riverside NPA whose land use is over one third multifamily.  The prevailing land use in the Parker Lane NPA is single family residential, while the Pleasant Valley NPA has more open space (35%) than multifamily and single
family residential combined.

All three NPAs experienced increases in gross density from 1990 to 2000 as did the Urban Core (refer to figure on following page). The Riverside NPA (745 acres) had three times as many people per acre as the Parker Lane NPA, the Pleasant Valley NPA or the Urban Core.  This high number (21.82) is due in part to the fact that over one third of the land use in the Riverside NPA is multifamily residential. In contrast, Pleasant Valley (which has double the acreage of the Riverside NPA), had the lowest gross density per acre (6.0) in 2000.  Contributing factors to this low gross density include the presence of the Colorado River, the 18-hole Riverside Golf Course, the ACC Riverside Campus, and a sizable industrial park district.

Greater South River City

Greater South River City is comprised of two neighborhood planning areas: South River City and St. Edwards. The boundaries of the combined planning area are Town Lake on the north, Interstate Highway 35 South on the east, Ben White Boulevard on the south and South Congress on the west. 

The Greater South River City Combined Planning Area is largely a single-family neighborhood. However, it is not much more so than the Urban Core. St. Edwards University accounts in large part for GSRC having nearly three times more of its land area used for civic land uses than the urban core and citywide averages. 

In 1913, General William Harwood Stacy and Stacy’s sons began development of Travis Heights. Travis Heights was designed with a range of lot sizes, a street system of both grid and curvy streets, and deed restrictions that prohibit multifamily and commercial uses. Travis Heights was the most heavily promoted subdivision of its time. The last major residential subdivision in the Greater South River City Neighborhood to be developed was the Sherwood Oaks Subdivision starting in the late 1960s. 

Source: Dawson, East Riverside/Oltorf Combined, and Greater South River City neighborhood plans


