District E6 includes the Chestnut, Rosewood, and Upper Boggy Creek planning districts in East Austin.

Chestnut

The Chestnut neighborhood is located in East Austin and is defined by Martin Luther King, Jr. Blvd on the north, 12th St. on the south, Chicon Avenue on the west, and the Austin & Northwestern Rail right-of-way on the East. The planning area is part of the city's turn-of-the-century urban core. It is close to major landmarks such as the Capitol, Huston-Tillotson University, and the Mueller redevelopment. Over 100 structures within Chestnut are listed in the city's East Austin Survey of Cultural Resources. Many houses within the neighborhood reflect classic design features, but many homes are also in need of repair or rehabilitation.

Rosewood

Between 1910 and 1940, the City of Austin adopted as official policy the goal of segregating Black households in East Austin. This policy is critical to understanding the events that have shaped Rosewood Planning Area. African-Americans and Hispanics often relocated to the Rosewood area and other areas of East Austin to accomodate segrationist policies. In 1957, the Austin Development Plan presented by the City Planning Commission recommended that, since most industrial development that was located within the city limits was in East Austin, any additional industrial development should also be in that part of the city. Industrial and commercial zoning were applied to large areas of East Austin.

Many areas of Rosewood, while settled, did not have paved roads into the 1950s and 1960s. 

Upper Boggy Creek Planning Area

The planning area is composed of a number of different neighborhoods: Rogers-Washington-Holy Cross, Blackland, Cherrywood, Wilshire Wood/Delwood I, and Delwood II. 

Blackland was originally settled by Swedish farmers, but its demographics changed in the early 20th century. In 1927, Austin adopted a master plan that called for displacing blacks from the area west of the capitol and relocating them to the east. The results of this plan also relocated many of them into a corridor that was also designated for future growth of the University of Texas.  In 1956, the City of Austin abandoned the 1927 plan as racist. However, the administration of the University of Texas continued to cite the plan as the basis for its frequent eastward expansions as late as 1992. This led to deterioration of the housing stock in the neighborhood since land holders had little incentive to maintain the property. In 1994, UT made a deal with the Blackland Development Corporation to halt expansion at Leona Street and donated property east of the boundary to the the corporation.

Rogers-Washington-Holy Cross lies east of Blackland and Chestnut Ave. This neighborhood includes the Rogers and Washington subdivisions, as well as Campbell elementary school.

Cherrywood is a collection of subdivisions including French Place and Concordia. By the beginnings of the 1960s this neighborhood was nearly completely built out with a variety of housing types. These included bungalows, small cottages, two-story stucco duplexes and single-family houses, ramblers, to even a few late nineteenth and early twentieth century houses.

The Delwood neighborhoods were all developed within the ten year period following World War II. The Delwood I subdivision includes a country church, the historic Wright/Giles home, as well as several homes designed and constructed with a special sensitivity to the environmental impacts of near Boggy Creek. Delwood II consists of seven square blocks with 175 homes built in the late 1940’s, the 90-unit Princeton Apartments, two churches, and a limited area zoned for businesses located on the IH-35 access road. The homes are primarily owner-occupied, and most have been remodeled and well maintained.

Source: Chestnut, Rosewood, and Upper Boggy Creek neighborhood plans
