In 1931 the City developed the first zoning map following the blueprint established by the 1928 plan. These maps reflected some racial basis for distributing land uses – these undertones are reflected in the plan’s inclusion of land use descriptions such as “white residential”. 

A relatively common practice for urban planners in this period was to recommend the segregation of communities and to concentrate people of color and industrial uses in the less desirable parts of town. This practice appears to have influenced the initial land use pattern of Austin and the effects of this approach can still be seen in the distribution of land uses throughout the City. However, race was not the only determinant of where industrial zoning should be located. The presence of infrastructure such as railroad tracks in East Austin increased its viability as a location for industrial land uses. The varied and incompatible pattern of land uses in the Govalle area, and other parts of East Austin, may also be traced back to the period of cumulative zoning. Cumulative zoning is a zoning system that allows less intensive uses to be developed in any more intense zoning district. In a simple cumulative zoning system, the most restrictive type of district is residential.

In this residential district, only residential uses are allowed. The second most restrictive district is commercial. In this commercial district, both commercial and residential uses are allowed. The least restrictive district is industrial. In industrial districts (which are common in Govalle), industrial, commercial and residential uses are allowed. A common effect of this approach to zoning was that on land zoned industrial, either industrial, commercial or residential uses may be developed. This permissive system resulted in residential and industrial uses being developed on adjacent tracts of land with the inevitable conflicts of noise, traffic, pollution, etc occurring at some point in the future. This pairing of incompatible uses remains the source of many of the land use conflicts that characterize parts of East Austin to this day.