The Georgian Acres, Heritage Hills, St. John, and Coronado Hills comprise the N5 District. These neighborhoods 

Georgian Acres
An oxcart trail predates the current path of North Lamar Boulevard; this trail carried Spanish teamsters en route to San Antonio through the north Austin area, including the Georgian Acres neighborhood. Little Walnut Creek bisects the Georgian Acres planning area as it runs southwest toward the Colorado River. The more rural character of the Georgian Acres area can likely be attributed to the colorful history of Little Walnut Creek. The creek had been the site of early battles between Native Americans and European settlers; later, farmers and ranchers were drawn to the creek for the fertile soils it provided for both their crops and livelihoods.

The Georgian Acres neighborhood was entirely annexed into the city limits between 1945 and 1984. Most of the area has been developed, with much of the development activity occurring since annexation of the
area began. Development, including the housing stock, is older in Georgian Acres than in surrounding neighborhoods.


Heritage Hills

Heritage Hills NPA has a great diversity of land uses, including single family houses, multifamily and mobile home residential uses, and industrial, office and commercial uses.

The majority of houses in the Heritage Hills NPA were mainly platted and developed from the 1960s to the late 1970s. These include the Heritage Hills and Woodbridge Subdivisions. Only 13% of Heritage Hills NPA consists of single family houses, including a variety of one story ranch, two story houses, and duplexes (the majority of the duplexes are located on Furness Drive and have been constructed in the last few years). The majority of the houses in the Heritage Hills NPA are situated on average sized lots, which are flat to moderately sloped. Most A house and duplex to the north of E. Rundberg Lane New houses built in north Windsor Hills from the late 1990s to 2008. Most of the single family area is also heavily wooded and landscaped.

A large portion of the Heritage Hills NPA has an especially high concentration of light industrial land uses and office parks. Additionally, there is a node of senior retirement care facilities in the area, which not only provide jobs, but allow area residents to age in place. 

St. John's and Coronado Hills

The St. John's and Coronado Hills neighborhoods are combined into a single planning area. The history of the St. John neighborhood dates back to 1894. At that time, under the leadership of Dr. L. L. Campbell, the St. John Regular Baptist association purchased 303 acres in north Austin. With the pressures of the great depression and families in need, Reverend A.K Black, the moderator of the St. John Regular Baptist Association, began subdividing the land in St. John into plots. 

Since the community was outside of the city service boundaries, they struggled to access city services, goods and essential items for everyday living. While part of the neighborhood was annexed into the city in 1951, the extension of city services to the area was slow. The greatest change to community dynamics came in the 1970s and 1980s. The rural fabric of the community was shifting to a more urban character with the introduction of apartments and subdivisions. Despite urbanization happening on the fringes, the St. John community still remained one with unpaved streets. The addition of much needed infrastructure did not take place until 1976. 

In contrast to the St. John neighborhood, the Coronado Hills community is much younger with development taking place post World War II. Specifically, the lands began to be subdivided and developed for the purposes of residential housing in the late 1960s. 

The land that now constitutes the Coronado Hills subdivision was platted and divided in the late 1960s. It appears that the development of the subdivision took place in three sections or phases dating from 1968 to 1972. The residential development typifies architecture custom to post World War II suburbanization. Specifically, residential development during this time period reflects a unified appearance where homebuilders took responsibility for developing multiple tracts versus individual architects working on single tracts. 

In the late 70s and early 80s two new housing types were introduced in the Coronado Hills NPA, condominiums (Old Town) and retirement housing (St. George’s Court). During this same time frame, new apartment complexes were being developed in St. John.


Source:  Georgian Acres, Heritage Hills/Windsor Hills, St. John, and Coronado Hills Neighborhood Plans