District N6 is composed of the University Hills, Pecan Springs-Springdale, and MLK-183 neighborhoods. University Hills is part of the University Hills/Windsor Park neighborhood planning area, while Pecan-Springs and MLK-183 comprise part of the East MLK Combined planning area.

University Hills

In 1960, homebuilding in University Hills began under the joint venture of Carrington
Built Homes and Lumbermen’s Investment Corporation. As the subdivision name suggests,
all streets are named for colleges or universities. Building continued into the late
1960s in the general area east of Northeast Drive, bordered by Hwy 183 and Little Walnut
Creek (south of Manor Road). In the late 1960s and early 1970s, approximately 150
homes on the northeastern edge of University Hills (near Langston and Hwy 183) were
built by Bill Milburn Homes as Vintage Hills. Later, five apartment complexes were built
within the University Hills boundaries.

At the time of its initial development, University Hills was a suburban neighborhood
whose location provided convenient access to downtown via IH-35, and to northeast
Travis County via Hwy 290 or Manor Road. This location provided (and still provides) an
easy commute to many major employment locations downtown and along the highways
on the neighborhood’s north and east boundaries. As the sections of neighborhood
were built, developers promoted the area as a great place to live, especially for
professionals, state employees, and those in the Air Force stationed at Bergstrom Air
Force Base. Advertisements for new homes promoted the subdivisions’ winding roads,
rolling hills, trees, and that University Hills had “Austin’s only private community recreational
center complete with swimming pool, club, and playground.”

Pecan Springs-Springdale and MLK-183

These planning areas include the site of the former Fort Colorado, which was abandoned in 1850, and cemetaries of historical significance. Unfortunately, however, city planning documents have little information about the recent development of this area. 

Source:  University Hills/Windsor Park and East-MLK Combined Neighborhood Plans
